#summary How to contribute to the toolbox code.#labels Support= Introduction =A few high level users have already contributed to the code and we thank them. As modification, redistribution and use of the source code are permitted, provided that certain conditions are met, we are grateful to the community of people for taking part in the development of the toolbox and hence improving it. Somehow, two elementary rules must be followed to ensure a proper maintenance of the code.== Start from latest code version ==Each time you realise you could contribute to the code, please first make sure you have the latest source code available before starting to modify it. So when possible please use the last source snapshot or even [http://code.google.com/p/imos-toolbox/wiki/tortoiseSVN subversion] if you feel comfortable with it. Please try to comment your code.== Wait for moderation and then use next version of code ==Once you are happy with your modification, please send it to me with as much details as possible (comments in code, example of data file/database used, a user story relevant for this modification) by email and I will do my best to merge your work as soon as possible in the next toolbox version. So I will act as a moderator for everyone and let you know once the modification is integrated. Then download the last snapshot and see if you are happy with its integration in standalone for example. After that, please erase any old version of code hanging around as we would like everyone to use the same and latest version.