#summary Specification of the NetCDF exporter.
#labels Specification

<wiki:toc/>

= NetCDF Compliance =

A function called `makeNetCDFCompliant` is called after data has been imported; this function uses a set of 'template' files, which specify NetCDF attribute values in three different ways:
 * Literal strings
 * Matlab expressions
 * Deployment Database queries.

When required, the template engine reads in a template, runs any DDB queries and executes any matlab expressions which are specified in the template, and adds the results to the `sample_data` struct in question.

A template file is a list of `name=value` pairs. The `value` section may contain, as listed above, literal strings, matlab expressions, database queries, or a combination of all three.

== Literal Strings ==

An example template attribute definition which simply provides a literal string:
{{{
project = Integrated Marine Observing System (IMOS)
}}}

== DDB Queries ==

The syntax for setting an attribute value to be the value of a field within the deployment database is (the square brackets indicate optional sections):

{{{
attribute_name = {ddb field [related_table [related_pkey] related_field]}
}}}

where 

 * `field` is a field within the `DeploymentData` table, the value of which is to be used as the attribute value (unless `related_table` and `related_field` are specified).
 * `related_table` is the name of a table to which the field should be considered a foreign key.
 * `related_pkey` is the name of the related_table primary key. If omitted, it is assumed to be the same as field.
 * `related_field` is the name of the field within the related_table, the value of which is to be used as the attribute value.

A couple of examples:

1. For the attribute definition:
  {{{
local_time_zone = {ddb TimeZone}
  }}}
the value will be translated into a query to the deployment database of the form:
  {{{
select TimeZone from DeploymentData 
where DeploymentID = sample_data.variables{k}.deployment_id
  }}}

2. For the attribute definition:
  {{{
institution = {ddb PersonnelDownload Personnel StaffID Organisation}
  }}}
the value will be translated into the following query:
  {{{
select Organisation from Personnel where StaffID = 
(
  select PersonnelDownload from DeploymentData
  where DeploymentID = sample_data.variables{k}.deployment_id
)
  }}}

== Matlab Expressions ==

You can set the attribute value to be the result of a matlab statement like
so:
{{{
  attribute_name = {mat statement}
}}}

*Note:* The result of the statement must be a matlab string.

The following 'workspace' is available to these embedded statements:

 * `sample_data`: the struct containing sample data, which is passed to this function.
 * `k`: (only if the template is a data attribute template) the variable index passed to this function.

For example, for the attribute definition:
{{{
  quality_control_set = {mat num2str(readToolboxProperty('toolbox.qc_set'))}
}}}

the attribute value will be the value of the matlab statment:
{{{
  num2str(readToolboxProperty('toolbox.qc_set'))
}}}

== Combinations ==

You can combine each method of defining values, as shown in the following examples:

 #. 
 {{{
qc_param_name = {mat sample_data.variables{k}.name}_QC
 }}}
 #.
 {{{
author = {ddb PersonnelDownload Personnel StaffID FirstName} \
         {ddb PersonnelDownload Personnel StaffID LastName}
 }}}
 #. 
 {{{
title = {mat sample_data.field_trip_id}: {ddb Site Sites ResearchActivity}
 }}}

= NetCDF Exporter =

The NetCDF exporter generates IMOS compliant NetCDF files, using information from the `sample_data` struct. The `sample_data` structs are maintained in more or less the same format that is required by the IMOS NetCDF standard, so the exporter's job is very simple.
