#summary Lists the Nortek instruments that are currently supported.
#labels Support,Featured

<wiki:toc/>

= Nortek supported instruments =

This page lists the Nortek instrument Models which are supported by the toolbox, and the data formats required for each of them. If you have some data from an unsupported instrument or format, send me an [http://code.google.com/u/guillaume.galibert/ email], or leave a comment on this page with files examples, and I'll look into adding support for this new instrument/format.

== Nortek ADCP ==

The toolbox is able to parse raw binary data from the following Nortek instruments. The binary format for these instruments is specified in the Nortek System Integrator Manual, available for download [http://imos-toolbox.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/Instruments/Nortek/system-integrator-manual.pdf here] or on [http://www.nortek-as.com/en/library/rep-room/application-development/system-integrator-manual Nortek website].

*IMPORTANT:* It is assumed that the data is referring to magnetic North by default and that no magnetic declination correction has been applied.

 * Aquadopp Profiler (`.prf` files) using the *aquadoppProfiler* parser.
 * Aquadopp Velocity current metre (`.aqd` files) using the *aquadoppVelocity* parser.
 * Continental (`.cpr` files) using the *continental* parser.
 * AWAC (`.wpr` files) using the *awac* parser.

For the Aquadopp Profiler and Continental, only the raw binary file is required. For reading wave data from an AWAC/AWACAST, use the AWAC/AWACAST program to perform a data conversion and select "wave" output to create .whd and .wad file. Then use !QuickWave or Storm software to generate the processed wave data files (.wap, .wdr, .was and .wds).

For the Aquadopp Profiler, Continental and AWAC, the following data is extracted:

 * Time
 * Northward velocity (at each time and depth)
 * Eastward velocity (at each time and depth)
 * Upward velocity (at each time and depth)
 * Acoustic backscatter (at each time and depth)
 * Battery voltage (at each time)
 * Temperature (at each time)
 * Relative pressure (at each time)
 * Pitch (at each time)
 * Roll (at each time)
 * Heading (at each time)
 
For the Aquadopp Velocity current metre the same data as above is extracted except that is only at one depth.

For the AWAC, if wave data is present, the following data is extracted. The AWAC wave data is loaded separately from the profile data, as it is on a different time scale:

 * Time
 * Frequency
 * Direction
 * Wave variance spectral density (at each time and frequency)
 * Wave direction spectral density (at each time and frequency)
 * Significant wave height (at each time)
 * Zero upcrossing period (at each time)
 * Wave from direction (at each time)
 * Wave directional spread (at each time)
 * Temperature (at each time)
 * Relative pressure (at each time)
 * Battery voltage (at each time)
 * Heading (at each time)
 * Pitch (at each time)
 * Roll (at each time)
 * Wave directional variance spectral density (at each time, frequency and direction)

 To read wave data, the parsers assumes :
 
 * the .whd, .wap, .was, .wdr and .wds exist and are in the same directory as the .wpr file.
 * the .wds file contains 90 rows per frequency.
 * the files adhere to the layouts as follow.
 
=== `.whd` file format ===

The toolbox currently assumes that the wave data `.whd` file columns adhere to the following format:

|| *Column* || *Field*               || *Unit*  ||
||1         ||Month                  ||1-12     ||
||2         ||Day                    ||1-31     ||
||3         ||Year                   ||         ||
||4         ||Hour                   ||0-23     ||
||5         ||Minute                 ||0-59     ||
||6         ||Second                 ||0-59     ||
||7         ||Burst counter          ||         ||
||8         ||No of wave data records||         ||
||9         ||Cell position          ||m        ||
||10        ||Battery voltage        ||V        ||
||11        ||Soundspeed             ||m/s      ||
||12        ||Heading                ||degrees  ||
||13        ||Pitch                  ||degrees  ||
||14        ||Roll                   ||degrees  ||
||15        ||Minimum pressure       ||dbar     ||
||16        ||Maximum pressure       ||dbar     ||
||17        ||Temperature            ||degrees C||
||18        ||!CellSize              ||m        ||
||19        ||Noise amplitude beam 1 ||counts   ||
||20        ||Noise amplitude beam 2 ||counts   ||
||21        ||Noise amplitude beam 3 ||counts   ||
||22        ||Noise amplitude beam 4 ||counts   ||
||23        ||AST window start       ||m        ||

=== `.wap` file format ===

The toolbox currently assumes that the wave data `.wap` file columns adhere to the following format:

|| *Column* || *Field*                       || *Unit* ||
||1         ||Month                          ||1-12    ||
||2         ||Day                            ||1-31    ||
||3         ||Year                           ||        ||
||4         ||Hour                           ||0-23    ||
||5         ||Minute                         ||0-59    ||
||6         ||Second                         ||0-59    ||
||7   		||Spectrum type                  ||(0-Pressure, 1-Velocity, 3-AST)||
||8   		||Significant height (Hm0)       ||(m)     ||
||9   		||Mean 1/3 height (H3)           ||(m)     ||
||10  		||Mean 1/10 height (H10)         ||(m)     ||
||11  		||Maximum height (Hmax)          ||(m)     ||
||12  		||Mean Height (Hmean)            ||(m)     ||
||13  		||Mean  period (Tm02)            ||(s)     ||
||14  		||Peak period (Tp)               ||(s)     ||
||15  		||Mean zerocrossing period (Tz)  ||(s)     ||
||16  		||Mean 1/3 Period (T3)           ||(s)     ||
||17  		||Mean 1/10 Period (T10)         ||(s)     ||
||18  		||Maximum Period (Tmax)          ||(s)     ||
||19  		||Peak direction (!DirTp)        ||(deg)   ||
||20  		||Directional spread (!SprTp)    ||(deg)   ||
||21  		||Mean direction (Mdir)          ||(deg)   ||
||22  		||Unidirectivity index 			 ||        ||
||23  		||Mean Pressure                  ||(dbar)  ||
||24  		||Mean AST distance              ||(m)     ||
||25  		||Mean AST distance (Ice)        ||(m)     ||
||26  		||No Detects 					 ||        ||
||27  		||Bad Detects					 ||        ||
||28  		||Number of Zero-Crossings 		 ||        ||
||29  		||Current speed (wave cell)      ||(m/s)   ||
||30  		||Current direction (wave cell)  ||(deg)   ||
||31        ||Error Code                     ||        ||

=== `.wdr` file format ===

The toolbox currently assumes that the wave data `.wdr` file columns adhere to the format listed below. The first line in the file gives frequency vector values for 1-n in Hz:

|| *Column* || *Field*            || *Unit* ||
||1         ||Directional Spectrum||Deg     ||
||2         ||Directional Spectrum||Deg     ||
||.         ||.                   ||.       ||
||n         ||Directional Spectrum||Deg     ||

=== `.was` file format ===

The toolbox currently assumes that the wave data `.was` file columns adhere to the format listed below. The first line in the file gives frequency vector values for 1-n in Hz:

|| *Column* || *Field*      || *Unit* ||
||1         ||Power Spectrum||m^2/Hz  ||
||2         ||Power Spectrum||m^2/Hz  ||
||.         ||.             ||.       ||
||n         ||Power Spectrum||m^2/Hz  ||

=== `.wds` file format ===

The toolbox currently assumes that the wave data `.wds` file adheres to the following format:

 * Each row is one frequency 0.02:0.01:[0.49 or 0.99] Hz
 * Each column is dicretized by 4 degrees 0:4:356 degrees:

|| *Burst* || *Size*             || *Unit*   ||
||1        ||n frequencies rows x 90 columns||m^2/Hz/deg (Normalized-Energy/deg)||
||2        ||n frequencies rows x 90 columns||m^2/Hz/deg (Normalized-Energy/deg)||
||.        ||.                   ||.         ||
||n        ||n frequencies rows x 90 columns||m^2/Hz/deg (Normalized-Energy/deg)||

