#summary Lists the automatic QC procedures that are currently available.
#labels Support,Featured

<wiki:toc/>

= Automatic quality control procedures =

The following automatic quality control procedures are available in the Toolbox since version 2.1b :

== Official IMOS standard set of procedures for moored CTD ==

This set of QC procedures has been specifically designed for checking physical variables such as temperature and salinity collected on moorings. These tests should always been performed for data sets collected on moorings. Eventually, it is important to follow the suggested order of tests below.

The basis of these tests is described in [ftp://dataupload.emii.org.au/pub/Toolbox_documents/Morello_et_al_2011.pdf Morello et al. 2011 paper].

=== Impossible location test - morelloImpossibleLocationSetQC === 

morelloImpossibleLocationSetQC tests impossible Latitude and Longitude data values against nominal values for the current mooring site. Useful to detect typos in positions documented in the metadata/deployment database.

|| *Variables checked* || *Pass test flag* || *Fail test flag* ||
||Longitude, Latitude||1-Good data||3-Bad data that are potentially correctable||

Site name is retrieved from the deployment database in the field Site of the table !DeploymentData and then IMOS sites information and test parameters are read from IMOS\imosSites.txt. See example of such parameter file below :

{{{
% Definitions and descriptions of IMOS moorings/stations sites.
%
% These information are used in impossible location QC test. 
% distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold overrules other thresholds.
%
% Format:
%
%   name, longitude, latitude, longitudePlusMinusThreshold, latitudePlusMinusThreshold, distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold
%
NRSMAI,     148.2333,   -42.59667,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSNSI,     153.58,     -27.389,    0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSKAI,     136.4473,   -35.83217,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSESP,     121.85,     -33.93333,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSROT,     115.4167,   -32,        0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSNIN,     113.947,    -21.86652,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSDAR,     130.7681,   -12.4,      0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSYON,     147.6184,   -19.30847,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan
NRSPHB,     151.25,     -34.08333,  0.2,    0.25,   Nan

}}}

 * distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold is Nan : 
Longitude and Latitude data are checked against nominal longitude and latitude values +/- longitudePlusMinusThreshold or latitudePlusMinusThreshold. In conclusion, positions are tested to be in a square centered on the nominal position and which width is 2*longitudePlusMinusThreshold and height is 2*latitudePlusMinusThreshold.

 * distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold is not Nan : 
Longitude and Latitude data are checked against the distance between the nominal position distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold. In conclusion, positions are tested to be in a circle centered on the nominal position and which radius is distanceKmPlusMinusThreshold.

=== Impossible date test - morelloImpossibleDateQC === 

=== Before deployment date flagging - morelloInWaterQC === 

=== After retrieving date flagging - morelloOutWaterQC === 

=== Spike test - morelloSpikeQC === 

=== Gradient test - morelloGradientQC === 

=== Stationarity test - morelloStationarityQC === 

=== Climatology range test - morelloRangeQC === 

== Official IMOS standard set of procedures for moored ADCP ==

This multi tests QC procedure has been specifically designed for checking horizontal and vertical components of the current collected from ADCPs on moorings. These tests should always been performed for data sets collected on moorings.

=== Workhorse ADCP tests - teledyneSetQC === 

This quality procedure only works for Workhorse ADCPs manufactured by Teledyne RD Instruments.

== Other procedures ==

These QC procedures were historically included in previous versions of the toolbox and should only be used with full knowledge.

=== Time gap detection - timeGapQC === 

=== Before deployment date flagging - inWaterQC === 

=== After retrieving date flagging - outWaterQC ===

=== Tukey spike detection - tukey53HDespikeQC === 

=== RC filter spike detection - rcFilterDespikeQC === 

=== Stationarity test - flatlineQC === 

=== Basic range test - rangeQC === 

