#summary Overview of the IMOS Toolbox
#labels Requirements

<wiki:toc/>

= IMOS Matlab Toolbox Overview =

 * Guillaume Galibert <guillaume dot galibert at utas dot edu dot au> (since May 2011)
 * Paul !McCarthy <pauld dot mccarthy at gmail dot com> (from March 2009 to February 2010)
 * Lindsay Pender <lindsay dot pender at csiro dot au>
 * Craig Steinberg <c dot steinberg at aims dot gov dot au>

== Overview ==

The IMOS Matlab Toolbox aims to provide an automated, easy to use interface for converting raw instrument data into IMOS compatible NetCDF files, ready for handover to eMII. The first stage of this project is underway, and is specifically targeting 'delayed mode' data; in other words, data which is manually retrieved from long-term mooring sites. 

Typical usage of the Toolbox would proceed as follows:

 # User downloads data set from an instrument supported by the Toolbox (e.g. SBE37).
 # User imports data set into Toolbox along with a deployment data base containing metadata.
 # User performs pre-processing routines over data set, such as depth calculation for each sensor, time offset to UTC time...
 # User executes semi-automatic QC procedures over data set, such as time and location checks, in/out of water flagging, range checks, spike detection, stationarity checks...
 # User performs manual QC over data via interactive display.
 # Toolbox generates eMII/IMOS compatible NetCDF files containing metadata and data at non QC'd and QC'd levels.

While the Toolbox will be designed to execute with minimal user intervention (apart from semi-automatic QC procedures configuration and manual quality control), the Matlab source will be available for users who wish to [ContributeToTheCode contribute] to the existing code with new features, have more fine grained control over the execution flow, or who wish to integrate the Toolbox into an existing Matlab codebase. The Toolbox will be made available to all.

== System requirements ==

System requirements for using the Toolbox are as follows:

 * Windows (XP from Seven either in 32bit or 64bit) or Linux 64bit operating system
 * Java Runtime Environment 1.6
 * Matlab from R2010b to R2012b (Optional, a self-contained executable version is available)
 * A local deployment database (Optional)
 * Microsoft Access 32bit if you use a 32bit operating system, 64bit if you use a 64bit one (Optional, can be bypassed with UCanAccess, especially when using Linux)
 
== Using the toolbox ==

See how to [ToolboxInstallation install], [ToolboxConfiguration configure] and [UsingTheToolboxOverview use] the toolbox in the corresponding pages.

== Deployment database ==

The deployment database is a MS Access database which is local to each site, and which conforms to the deployment database schema developed at AIMS. The deployment database is used to store metadata for every deployment of interest to the site. The toolbox should always be used with a deployment database. Otherwise more work is required by the user in filling out metadata for each data set and some important pre-processing/quality control procedures won't be available.

The deployment database contains metadata for all aspects of a deployment, including instrument/sensor/platform model, calibration information, and deployment location/depth. This information is used by the Toolbox for the generation of MEST compatible metadata documents, and metadata fields in the NetCDF files. See [http://imos-toolbox.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/deployment_database_conventions.pdf deployment database conventions] to have an idea on how to document your local deployment database.

== Supported instruments ==

See the current [SupportedInstruments supported instruments] list.

In order for the Toolbox to be useful for a variety of instruments, the input format for a particular instrument sometimes has to be provided in a standard format, or a limited set of formats.

== Pre-processing routines ==

See the current [PPRoutines pre-processing routines] list.

== Quality control procedures ==

See the current [QCProcedures quality control procedures] list.

IMOS quantitative scale flag follows the IOC scale flag. See description [ProcessLevelsAndQC#Quality_Control here].

== Output format ==

The Toolbox generates NetCDF4 files according to the [http://imos-toolbox.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/IMOS_netCDF_usermanual_v1.3.pdf IMOS NetCDF User's Manual] and the [http://imos-toolbox.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/IMOS_netCDF_filenaming_convention_v1.4.pdf IMOS file naming convention]. 

Global and variables attributes can be automatically documented via [NetCDFTemplates configurable template files].

== Processed data levels ==

The following levels of processed data will be saved as separate NetCDF files:

 * Level 0: Non QC'd data
 * Level 1: QC'd data

These [ProcessLevelsAndQC#ProcessLevels levels] (and the output files) map directly to the Processed Data levels defined in the [http://imos-toolbox.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/documents/IMOS_netCDF_usermanual_v1.3.pdf IMOS NetCDF User's Manual].
