#summary Use cases for the IMOS Toolbox
#labels Requirements

<wiki:toc max_depth="2"/>

= Overview =

This document intends to outline a set of 'use cases' for the IMOS Toolbox software application. A use case is a description of the way a user would typically use the application.

= Use Case: Data Processing =

This use case describes the most likely common usage scenario of the Toolbox. This is the process followed when a user has a data set for which he/she wishes to generate IMOS compliant NetCDF files for submission to eMII.

 # User loads instruments data files into the Toolbox using the deployment database.
 # User runs pre-processing routines over data sets.
 # User visually inspects the data using the toolbox display features data set by data set and by ploting common variables across data sets via the menu tools.
 # User runs automatic QC procedures over data sets.
 # User visually inspects QC results per and accross data sets using the toolbox display features, the menu tools and the detailed QC results via the QC stats table.
 # After visual inspection, if necessary user re-runs automatic QC procedures with a finer parameters configuration over data sets.
 # After visual inspection, if necessary user performs some manual QC over data sets.
 # User exports data to NetCDF file(s).
 # User checks NetCDF file(s) name and content (data + metadata) using tools like ncdump and ncBrowse.
 # User submits file(s) to eMII.

= Use Case: Data verification =

This use case describes a usage scenario which may arise during instrument retrieval, when the user wishes to quickly verify that the data downloaded from the instrument is valid and complete.

 # User loads instrument data files straight into the Toolbox without using any deployment database.
 # User visually verifies that the data looks correct.
